hello my name is Keith Gruber I'm a
guitar teacher and also to teach the
bass I would simply a couple different
instruments add our bass cello and I'm
doing this video as just a demonstration
of my teaching style if you're
interested in lessons make sure you
visit my website it's Keith
Gruber calm it should be if you're on
YouTube it should be over that way and
first of all so for this first a little
lesson I just want to show a little bit
about right hand techniques but take
particularly whatever you are strumming
a lot of people 10 whenever they're
strumming they tend to want to move
their arm kind of like this it's the
same motion that you make whenever
you're wiping a table off your wrists
can make three pretty distinct kinds of
motion one is that motion the wiping a
table off motion another one is the
rotation motion like this which is kind
of like opening up a doorknob going like
this but the one that I prefer to use
the one that I think really helps just
as far as expression goes as far as
range and as far as efficiency goes is
the the throwing of Frisbee motion so
it's a motion just like this you notice
that my arm doesn't rotate at all like
this I'm doing straight
up and down kind of like a puppet saying
yes you see that so the reason why I use
that one you get a very large range to
you're using a much larger muscle in
your arm so you get a lot more strength
but also you don't have to work as hard
all right
so whereas if you use the other methods
you get a much smaller range and you end
up having to use your arm a lot more to
compensate so let me demonstrate it a
little bit let's see here we go just
this a little down down up up down up
strumming pattern there you go
okay say if you see this Russians going
just like this and you notice I'm also
not very eating very little before arm
I'm using almost all wrists forward
whenever I whenever I want to play
louder like for instance if I want to
accent a note I'll use my farm to do
that accent so I get so you can accent
right there so this allows me to get
just a little more strength out of it
than I use normally but it also allows
me to keep that very simple motion going
in the right hand so we see uh it allows
me a lot of speed you know but also more
importantly it allows me a lot of
expression I can really get if I'm going
to fairly complicated strumming pattern
I can you know get lots of light nice
little accents you know change it around
a little bit
so let's see now how do you get that
motion and how do you actually apply it
to guitar now the biggest problem that
most people have with this motion is
that if you can see my wrist is moving
like this if you imagine the car is just
like this so if you see the pic is on
the wrong side of my hand the pic needs
to be over here so what I do is I
basically kind karate chop my guitar
like this and I reach my hand I reach
that pick over just a little bit so I
can actually get to the strings so you
see it this way hopefully you can do
this but here the karate chop into my
guitar reach my pick across like this
and they go like that
now the other thing that you have to
watch out for whenever you're doing this
is you have to make sure that your pick
is pointing straight in to get your
guitar a lot of people have a tendency
to kind of turn their pick down so that
it's pointing upwards whenever they're
doing the strumming this way you're
building this and then you end up having
to get a lot of extra right hand motion
whatever you doing that what you really
want to be able to do is to take that
pick and have it be perpendicular to the
guitar like that and the reason why is
because if you do that it allows you to
go down and then back up again without
having to make any
extra motion in your right hand so yeah
okay so that allows you to just more
efficiently it just it's more efficient
it allows you to kind of take out a
level of thought that goes into plank it
allows you to really simplify your
motion
as opposed to if I if I hold my pick
kind of more you know pointing up or
pointing down I don't have to make a
motion that was kind of more like this
now you see people do that kind of thing
but this is not quite as efficient and
you can't quite get quite as much
expression and different kinds of sounds
yeah because you're having to think
about an extra motion so let's see the
other problem people have with this kind
of motion is there's a tendency to hold
your pic flat against the guitar and I
might have come pretty close to make it
so that's your pic will hit the guitar
flat like this hopefully you can see
that um what you want to do is you want
to actually turn your pic a little bit
so demonstrate it this way if this is
the string then the pic you don't want
it to lay down flat on little on the
string like this you want have to hit
the string either this angle or that
angle different people's palms work
different way so for me it works better
if I have my tape angled like this and
what that allows you to do that allows
whenever your pic hits the string
instead of being like a brick wall like
this which forces you to kind of turn
your pic down or up you know
not moral into that it allows you to
make the pick kind of move the string so
you get it's kind of a little motorcycle
right after you good boom
so the string gets out of the way of the
pic instead of the pic having to get out
of the way the string okay that makes
sense so as a result if you get those
three elements together one the risk
motion to the pic being perpendicular to
the guitar sticking straight into the
guitar and also the pic of being a
slight angle to the strings this way as
opposed to being flat on the string then
it allows you to get a very very smooth
and very very simple and fast and
expressive
all right so hopefully this has been
helpful and I believe I'm gonna have a
couple other videos up here and if you
live in the Greenville South Carolina
area feel free to check out my website
and sign up for some lessons thanks a
lot